Git
Study Guide

1

Versa what?!

What is version control?
Insurance for when life happens. Important to keep track of your code as it evolves, can track changes and revert if something has gone wrong. Annotate reveisions and group revisions. Can link together with others. 

2

Where the heart is

What is the difference between distributed and centralized version control
systems?
Centralized version control keeps a "central" copy of a project somewhere and all the changes are made to this copy and stored in the same place. Distributed version control allows everyone working on a project to "clone" an entire repository so as to keep the full history of the project on their computer.


3

Versa who?!

What does a version control program do for us?
Version Control allows us to keep a record of all changes made to a project and the differences between the changes made. It also allows teams to collaborate on projects and work independently on their own systems while contributing to the same project with all changes tracked and owners identified. 


4

Committing to git

What is a commit?
Commit is a command used with git that takes the snapshot you staged with the add command and records them accompanied with your name and email address. Normally a comment is also recorded with a brief synopsis of what you did.

5

Checking out git

What is a check out?
Check out is a command used to switch(or create new) branches in Git. This allows you to move in a new direction while keeping a record of where you were at when the check out command was given. copy a version from the repository (such as if you were to create a branch).

6

It’s like a tree limb

What is a branch?
A branch is a line of your project with records of each commit. They use a movable pointer between commits. work on the side, like a big fix or new feature.

1

7

The life of a limb

How long are branches in git supposed to exist?
Branches exist until you delete them

8

Tree growth

How do you create a branch in git?
Use the branch command (with a name you would like to name it) to create a branch and the checkout command to switch to it.

9

Swinging on a vine

How do you switch branches in git?
to switch branches in git you use the checkout command coupled with the name of the branch you would like to switch to.

10

Taping it together

How do you merge branches in git?

11

Status

How do you check the status of the files you are presently working on?

12

Adding to the chaos

How do you add files to the repository?

13

The main line

What is the name for the primary branch in git?

14

What limb are you on?

How do you check which branch you presently have checked out?

2

15

Git what?!

What is github?

16

We see a need!

Why was git created?

17

A day in the life of git

What is a typical git workflow?

18

Why git?

What makes git different than other version control systems?

19

What were they thinking?!

What were the design criteria for git?

20

Time machine

How do we view the past of a project with git?

21

Commit Comment

How much information, and what kind of information should be in a commit
message?

22

Great Scott!

If there was a mistake made in the past of a project, how should we go about
correcting that mistake?

3
